[ominous music playing]
[boy] "There was no reason for what I did.
I loved the old man.
He had never wronged me.
For his gold, I had no desire.
I think it was his eye.
He had the eye of a vulture.
Whenever it fell upon me,
my blood ran cold.
And so I made up my mind
to kill the old man
and rid myself of the eye forever.
Every night I looked in upon him
while he slept.
Until the old man's hour had come.
With a loud yell, I leaped into the room.
He shrieked once.
In an instant, I dragged him to the floor
and pulled the heavy bed over him.
He was stone dead.
I dismembered the corpse.
I cut off the head, the arms and the legs.
But before long, my head ached.
I fancied a ringing in my ear.
The noise increased,
a low, dull, quick sound.
I gasped for breath,
but the noise steadily increased.
I paced the floor to and fro,
I foamed, I raved, I swore.
I swung the chair above the bed over him,
but the noise increased.
It grew louder, louder, louder!
Here, here.
It is the beating of his hideous heart."
[tapping on floorboards continues]
Did you see his face?
I thought he was gonna have
a heart attack.
-How much time's left?
-Four minutes.
I say we go in now
before he has a heart attack.
He knew the rules.
You can't be afraid of the dark
and be in the Poe Society.
Jimmy? Yo, everything okay down there?
[Jimmy coughing] Help, help!
Help me!
What...? Call 911!
[dramatic music playing]
If one of these four guys is Rakitin,
I can't prove it.
You accessed their hard drives,
data profile?
I did. CIA, DIA, State.
If one of these analysts is leaking intel,
I couldn't tell you how.
Which tells me
that however cautious Rakitin was before,
he's being more cautious now.
Follow them. Tell Park to pull
whatever resources she needs.
I have to meet Reddington.
-Captain Kidd.
-The pirate.
The only pirate who actually
buried his treasure,
along the coast of East Hampton.
The irony abounds.
We're talking about a child's overdose?
-[Raymond] Yes. On buried treasure.
-Fentanyl.
[Raymond] That he thought
was nothing more than dust.
An innocent and tragic mistake
that confirms my decision
as to the next name on the Blacklist.
[Cooper] Captain Kidd.
Your drop site is swarming with cops.
They could trace the drugs to me.
-You promised me.
-I promised you a safe drop.
Ted here screwed that up.
I want you to know
Ted won't screw up again.
[muffled grunting]
[Raymond] Captain Kidd is
a glorified middleman who facilitates
criminal transactions
by guaranteeing payment,
pickup and delivery
between otherwise warring factions.
By using hidden treasure?
GPS-tagged hiding spots.
Like an abandoned house
where he can hide drugs
where no one could find them
except for a group of kids.
He takes possession of an item for sale,
hides it and informs
the buyer of its location
once payment has been made
in the same fashion.
Like geocaching for narcotics.
Narcotics or contraband or people.
He hides people?
Yes, which is why
this case is of some urgency.
Someone's been abducted?
Not yet. But I believe she will be
if we don't act quickly.
Who?
Safiya Maroun.
[Cooper] Was born in Riyadh.
In 2006, she was committed
to a mental institution
for defying her male guardian's wishes.
She was granted asylum in America
and has since become
one of the most prominent opponents
of Saudi Arabian repression
and is the founder of Brighter Path,
an organization that helps get women
and people in the LGBTQ+ community
out of countries with oppressive regimes.
-The woman's a hero.
-[Cooper] And a target.
Of Neville Townsend.
[Cooper] According to Reddington,
Townsend's been contracted
by the Saudi secret police
to abduct Maroun
from her home in Maryland.
I've notified Hyattsville PD.
Meet them on-site.
Has anyone spoken to Maroun?
I tried, but it's late.
Could be her phone's turned off.
[suspenseful music playing]
[shrieks] No! Not my baby!
No! Get off me!
I just heard from my people. It's done.
-She'll be here within the hour.
-What if we're too late?
She'll be buried alive
until Saudi secret service pays Townsend.
At which point this Captain Kidd
will give them the coordinates
so the Mabahith can dig her up
and kill her.
That's right. So don't be late.
-Where's Park?
-Hunting down Rakitin.
So he can confirm
Reddington's a Russian plant?
Mr. Reddington's a traitor,
Agent Keen's thrown in with a man
who abducts human-rights activists,
and we're hunting for a pirate
that buries people alive.
I never should've left the circus.
[indistinct radio chatter]
So much for not being too late.
-Has the husband made a statement?
-Not yet.
-He's in surgery.
-[Ressler] Neighbors?
-A passerby? Anybody see anything?
-Afraid not.
Maybe this is his statement.
-Who's Nora?
-Eleanor. The oldest daughter.
First we thought maybe
the girl got taken too.
She and her sister are accounted for.
His wife's being abducted,
he doesn't know by whom,
and he uses what little strength he has
to write his daughter's name? Why?
Maybe because it's not a name.
-Kidnappers disarmed the system.
-To avoid tripping the alarm.
[Ressler] And to prevent the abduction
from being videotaped.
Yes. But what I'm interested in
happened before the abduction.
Hello. Who might you be?
I need an APB on a late-model Escalade.
Gray. No plates.
-I read up on you. I'm a fan of your work.
-I'm begging you. Please.
Nothing will happen to you on my watch.
Please don't do this!
You'll have plenty of air,
nice warm clothes.
Just breathe easily
and this will be over soon.
[Maroun] Don't do this!
Stop!
Don't do this!
[Maroun speaking indistinctly]
She's an inspiration.
Which is exactly
what the royal family fears.
Making her a martyr will only make her
more inspirational.
-People will take her place.
-I hope so.
The royal family pays top dollar
to make their competition disappear.
[Maroun] Don't do this!
[dramatic music playing]
[Rakitin] Hey. It's me.
I have something you may be interested in.
Opera? Aliens? Freeganism?
I'm interested in any number of topics.
Most anything.
Except accounting.
This isn't about accounting, is it?
It's about the intercept out of China.
The pending cyberattack.
I am interested.
Then we should talk.
How about the fountains? In Meridian Hill?
I'd prefer something
a little more intimate.
Come to the restaurant. Third and North.
We're closed for renovations,
so I can promise us a quiet corner.
We've been looking for you.
-Where have you been?
-It's, uh, sort of a long story.
I hope it has a happy ending.
We found the Escalade
from Maroun's abduction.
It was abandoned and scrubbed.
-And the husband?
-Ressler questioned him.
-He doesn't know anything.
-Well, I might.
Uh, I reached out to Cybercrime
to provide us with a list
of any online drug dealers
who have informants
that we could question about Captain Kidd
or how he's distributing product
using street-tech workarounds.
I spoke to DEA. They don't have anything.
Which is why I spent all night
buying mephedrone, cocaine
and MDMA on the dark web.
-You bought illegal drugs?
-I did. Which was terrifying.
On the upside,
one of the dealers asked to meet
near a taco truck in LeDroit Park
that is worth the drive.
Sounds delicious.
You have no idea, sir.
They have a chicken mole that is...
Try and stay focused.
Of the 16 dealers I purchased from,
eight are shipping to me directly,
seven met to hand off in person...
-And the last one?
-Just texted me coordinates,
photos and directions
of where the drugs are.
They're using Captain Kidd.
It's a geotagged hiding spot
in Penn Quarter.
Take Ressler. Pull the drugs,
along with surveillance feeds of the area.
Let's hope your online shopping spree
turns up more than great chicken mole.
[suspenseful music playing]
[cell phone dialing]
[line ringing]
[cell phone ringing]
-Yes?
-[Rakitin] Gotta call it off.
-Why? What's going on?
-I got a tail.
I'll call you back.
-Sure this is the right location?
-Look at the photo.
Instructions said back corner of the park.
Third light post from the south.
It's supposed to be inside
the broken solar assembly.
-Think someone else found it?
-Maybe they knew it was a setup
-and got cold feet.
-There's no surveillance.
No obvious cameras.
They chose this location
because it's a digital dark spot.
Oh, my God.
What if somebody else found those drugs?
-What if a child found those drugs?
-Hey. Check it out.
I don't get it.
You think Captain Kidd took a cab?
No. I think
that cab took Captain Kidd's picture.
The driver didn't witness anything,
but his dash cam caught the drop.
[Cooper] White male, late twenties.
Is the image strong enough
for facial recognition?
Resolution isn't the problem.
We just don't have a viable angle.
It's only these 22 seconds.
The cab only caught the end.
The kid walks out of frame.
What's that? The cup in his hand.
[keyboard clacking]
Kitt's Coffee.
They make a mean mochaccino.
They only have a few locations
in the city.
Pull sales records and surveillance feeds
from any of their stores in a mile radius.
If the kid paid with a credit card,
chances are we've got his address.
Get it and get him here.
You can't prove that my client is
the person in that footage.
[Ressler] We know you work
for Captain Kidd.
-I don't, I told you.
-What's gonna happen
when we pull your prints off the drugs
we found in the park?
-Or the drugs in your apartment?
-Mr. Moore is--
-Mr. Moore is going to jail.
-Okay, look, I'm telling the truth.
Okay, I... He's not my employer.
I don't work for Kidd.
I've been robbing him.
Robbing him of what?
It's all kinds of stuff. It's weapons,
stolen credit cards, fake IDs.
Narcotics.
-Yeah, narcotics.
-[attorney] Allegedly narcotics.
It's not just me. I'm not the only seeker.
-What's a seeker?
-You do not have to answer.
Explain to your mouthpiece here
that I'm gonna have a warrant
at your residence
before you walk out of this door.
You need to cooperate if you wanna
have any hope of staying out of jail.
Can you tell him that?
Go ahead, Jarret.
Captain Kidd uses droppers
to stash his product.
How much product, how many droppers,
I don't know, but it's a lot.
We track what we can,
follow a dropper, look for his stash.
We know it was drugs you stole
from that stash in the park.
I got a feeling the drug test would prove
they're in your system right now.
-Hold on.
-What if I forgot about that drug test?
In exchange for...?
You hand over whatever contraband
you have on hand,
whatever you stole
from these GPS-tagged hiding spots.
If that evidence helps me
find Captain Kidd,
I'll help you stay out of jail.
What the hell happened?
I'll tell you what happened.
I was tailed by the FBI.
This guy, Cooper, he's not standing down
like you said he would.
We need to do something about him.
[pensive music playing]
Hey. Came as quick as I could.
What's so urgent?
I ran a test on the narcotics
you pulled from Moore's apartment.
-That he stole from the park?
-Yes, we got a hit.
Chemical analysis showed
it contained powdered milk.
A cutting agent?
Notable because it's a favorite
of the Guayabo cartel.
MPD picked up
one of their dealers last month.
I called to get an evidence sample
to confirm the samples matched.
-But--
-They didn't.
Not only that, the sample we got
from the city wasn't drugs.
It was 100% baking soda.
-MPD seized fake drugs?
-No.
Their paperwork certifies
that the contents of the seizure
was heroin cut with powdered milk
at the time of testing.
Between testing and now,
someone took the drugs
and left baking soda behind.
Between now and then?
Who had access to the drugs in lockup?
Evidence logs show it was never touched.
The case against the cartel
hasn't gone to trial yet.
The drugs were never checked out
of evidence or brought to a courtroom.
So heroin went into lockup,
baking soda came out.
The last person that touched those drugs
would be the drug-lab chemist
who tested them for the city.
-Who's that?
-Name's Tyler Schwartz.
He's been with MPD
for just under five years.
Thank you.
You don't understand how close we came.
-If I hadn't made the tail...
-You did.
...she would have exposed us both.
But she didn't.
I thought this was about
some intercept out of China.
The impending cyberattack.
Are you listening me?
Keenly, in the vain hope of hearing
about this Chinese intercept.
The bureau is following me,
which means they are following you.
This whole thing is about to blow up
and expose us both.
Somehow I don't find your fevered
disposition to be infectious, Andrew.
My fevered-- What is wrong with you?
I am trying to dig us out of this mess.
No, what you are doing is
a rather obvious and ineffectual dance
to cover your tracks.
You killed an innocent man, Andrew.
You faked your death to divert
Harold Cooper, and as a result,
you've only made matters worse.
Now, I told you I'd handle Cooper...
-Are you kidding me?
-...which I will do.
But Harold Cooper is no fool,
and your theatrics only confirm
his belief that he's being played.
So stand back.
-I'll handle this.
-Back up a second.
How about, "Thank you,"
for picking up his tail?
for not leading the FBI directly to you
-and thus to Moscow? How about--?
-How about I break your jaw, wire it shut
and force-feed blended cheeseburgers
into your belly until you burst?
How about it?
No? Then shut the hell up and listen.
I told you I would handle Harold Cooper,
and I will do just that.
What you need to do is keep
your mouth shut, your head down
and assure Moscow
that the situation is under control.
Now, please, go away before
this becomes decidedly more uncivil.
The evidence was logged by MPD
and sent to the lab where you work.
-You're the chemist on record.
-I understand that.
Help me understand how evidence
that the police took off the street,
drugs that you tested in your lab,
somehow got swapped with baking soda.
I should wait for my lawyer.
Your lawyer can't stop us
from retesting every sample
you've examined and verified.
When we do, we're gonna find out
they're all fake.
Now, if you help us...
I don't know what to say.
What happened to those drugs?
It's not just me.
It's Williams.
Goebel.
What happens to the drugs, Tyler?
Our facility handles hundreds
of samples every week,
all kinds, from all over the city.
Evidence you personally handle.
Once we run
our chemical analysis to confirm
they're what the police say they are,
the cases go to trial,
supported by the lab certification.
But the drug evidence,
it goes back into the vault.
-Nobody's supposed to test it again.
-You're stealing and reselling evidence.
Like I said, I'm not the only one.
There's an entire network.
With a distribution system.
-I already said too much.
-We know you're using Captain Kidd.
That's who we're after here,
and you're gonna help us find him.
I can't do that.
You can if you wanna help yourself.
Tyler, look at me.
How do we find Captain Kidd?
[suspenseful music playing]
[woman] I've got both online.
[Kidd] Go ahead.
Do I have the buyer on the line?
Yes. We are here.
-Do I have the seller?
-Yes.
Seller, can you confirm
that the transaction is
at least 100 blocks deep
on the blockchain?
I can.
Do I have your consent to release
the package to the buyer?
You do.
Buyer, I'm sending you an encrypted file
with your GPS-tagged identifier.
This will include photos
and verbal instructions
to identify the drop site.
While we wait,
I want to thank you for your patronage.
-We have it.
-[Kidd] Is that your confirmation?
It is.
In that case,
transaction 49r83 is complete.
Again, thank you
for your business and good day.
Tell Penny we're funded,
have her notify Nicosia.
And send someone out for lumpia
and a Mello Yello.
-I could eat a horse.
-[rattling]
What was that?
-I don't hear anything.
-Shh. There. It sounds like--
-FBI. Hands in the air!
-[Aram] On the ground. Now!
Eighty-six the lumpia.
[suspenseful music playing]
Print back yet on Kidd?
Oh, I just got them.
That is, uh... That's the good news.
I'm listening.
Agent Park was following
one of the Rakitin suspects,
Andrew Patterson, from the Office
of Intelligence and Analysis.
Walk with me.
-Park thinks that Patterson made her.
-And the other suspects?
-Nothing on the other three.
-Then we pick it up again tomorrow.
Agent Park doesn't think
that will be necessary.
-Oh? And why is that?
-She thinks
Patterson is Mr. Reddington's source.
Because he gave her the slip?
That proves he's smart, not treasonous.
It's not that. The bad news is
where he gave her the slip.
-Where?
-Corner of Third and North.
Near Mr. Reddington's restaurant.
[Ressler] How we know about you
isn't important.
What matters is that we do.
We know about your geocaching,
how you hide drugs and people.
Safiya Maroun.
Tell me about her.
Never heard of her.
Your prints match to a William Benedict,
tied to a low-rent smuggling operation
back in 2014.
You've come a long way since then, huh?
If you say so.
Safiya Maroun. Where is she?
I haven't the foggiest.
There's a kid in the ICU at County.
He's 13 years old.
He overdosed on the fentanyl
that you stashed in that house.
Now, best-case scenario for you,
I think
that's attempted voluntary manslaughter.
I have no idea what you're talking about.
Your MPD partners have turned on you.
-They've given us sworn affidavits.
-Yet here you are. And we both know why.
-Where is Maroun?
-Where's my deal?
-You wanna get? What are you gonna give?
-[Cooper] Nothing.
A woman's life hangs in the balance.
A heroic woman we are moving
heaven and earth to try and save.
But what I refuse to do...
is to cut a deal with you
to make that happen.
Her blood is on your hands, not mine.
Maybe.
But I can live with that, knowing
that you'll be spending 30 years
taking showers with murderers and rapists.
[door opens]
Okay, so what? We're sweating him now?
No, we're not. We're building a case.
Then it's gonna be prosecuted
to the fullest extent.
He's not gonna tell us
how to find Maroun without a deal.
No, he's not.
But getting played by another criminal,
being forced to look the other way,
to countenance their sickness...
-Isn't that part of the job?
-Yeah. Part I hate the most.
Do what you can to get him to talk.
But he's not getting a deal.
I hear congratulations are in order.
You have Captain Kidd.
-Is that why you're here?
-Time is of the essence.
If Safiya Maroun is ever to draw
a breath of fresh air again,
let me have a chat with the captain.
-Introduce him to Brimley's badger.
-Your concern is noted.
But we both know you didn't come here
just to offer your services.
I came hoping
people would speak the truth.
Captain Kidd. Us.
Given your hypertension,
perhaps we should go first.
[dramatic music playing]
We know about Andrew Patterson.
-Do tell.
-We know he's Rakitin,
your source in the intelligence community.
We suspected as much.
So Park tailed him
to the corner of Third and North.
Lovely neighborhood.
Fine place to go for a walk.
Or for dinner.
It's half a block from your restaurant.
Don't do this.
He was going to meet you,
to divulge classified intel.
I'm asking you as a friend,
not an adversary.
I don't have friends
who betray this country.
I understand your quandary.
You care a great deal about Elizabeth.
You want to believe in her,
to understand and find reason
in her quest to destroy me.
But for what I hope is the final time,
let me be clear.
I am not a traitor to this country,
and I do not divulge
sensitive intelligence
to this country's enemies.
-I know that's not true.
-No, Harold. You think you know.
You have pieces of a puzzle
that you think you can solve.
But as I am the puzzle,
I know that you can't.
And as your friend...
and your colleague...
I implore you, for your own sake,
to please let this go.
-That some sort of threat?
-Sincere advice.
I have unsavory associates.
When cornered,
they tend to do unsavory things.
Let me get this straight:
you're not a Russian spy.
And the person Park tailed
isn't supplying you intel.
I'm on this wild-goose chase,
and yet my life is in danger?
You need to trust me on this.
You mean,
I need to believe you over Elizabeth?
That sounds
as if you're in contact with her.
I wish.
She's an apparition.
A ghost who leaves clues in the night
but is gone by morning.
You've taught her well.
Harold, this...
all of it...
is between her and me.
She and I may not agree on much,
but I'm sure we agree on this:
Neither of us would be able
to forgive ourselves
if our problems caused you
to become collateral damage.
I'm glad we've had this talk,
and I appreciate your offer.
But I'm confident we can get
what we need from Kidd
without Brimley's badger.
Make the deal. I'll get the AG onboard.
The deal you said we weren't gonna make?
Full immunity.
-So, what happened with Reddington?
-You mean N-13?
So you confronted him about Rakitin,
about how he ditched Park?
I don't condone what Elizabeth's doing.
But if we have to pick sides,
it's past time we picked hers.
We need to get to Keen
before Reddington does.
Because he works for Townsend,
Kidd can help us do that.
I meant what I said about getting played.
But you were right, it's what we do.
So do it.
Let me help you with the fine print.
You help, you walk.
-Full immunity.
-For past crimes.
Jaywalk tomorrow, I'm coming for you.
I'll help you with Maroun.
-And Townsend.
-No.
No way. I'm not crossing him.
That's just the cost of doing business.
-If I snitch on him, he'll find out.
-So what?
Come on, you'll be drinking mai tais
in Witness Protection.
You can't protect me. Not from him.
That's a chance you'll have to take.
[dramatic music playing]
How does it work?
Walk me through the steps.
Bore me with every tiny, little detail.
Our network, we're just...
It's a delivery system.
A series of dead drops
in abandoned buildings
or crowded public locations.
We provide a layer of protection
for the buyers and sellers
of illicit goods.
In this case, the parcel was acquired
by Neville Townsend,
taken to a holding site,
then packaged and prepared for delivery
by one of our splinter teams.
Packaged and prepared?
This isn't a stolen gun
we're talking about,
it's a person, which requires
a different set of precautions.
So it's true. You really did bury
Safiya Maroun alive.
[Kidd] I delivered the product
I was paid to transport.
-That's what we do.
-[Ressler] The site's geotagged?
You send the buyer details, photos, maps.
[Kidd] We do, yeah. But the buyer wanted
to take delivery somewhere remote.
I can give you coordinates,
but you'll never get there in time.
The GPS-tagged site indicates
Maroun is buried here,
a mile from the west shoreline
on Taylors Island.
That puts her midway between the Slaughter
Creek Broads and Robinson Neck Road.
How big is the buyer's head start?
We notified him two hours ago.
I assume he's on his way there now.
♪ Through these city nightmares
You'd walk with me ♪
♪ And we'd talk of it
With idealistic assurance ♪
♪ That it wouldn't tear us apart ♪
[GPS beeping]
♪ We'd keep our heads above
The blackened water ♪
[in Arabic] Get the equipment.
We are close.
-[Ressler] If he gets to her...
-You'd better hope he gets to her.
If he doesn't,
things go from bad to worse.
-What's that supposed to mean?
-She's on oxygen which is... limited.
How much oxygen?
She's got roughly six hours of air.
Less than an hour.
♪ Through billowing smoke
That's swallowed the sun ♪
♪ You're nowhere to be seen ♪
[drill whirring]
♪ Do you think our desires... ♪
Get her up.
♪ I guess it was desires
That tore us apart ♪
♪ There has to be passion ♪
♪ A passion for living ♪
I don't understand.
Where are you taking me?
Why didn't you just leave me to die?
Say something.
Keep walking.
-[in Arabic] You don't have to do this.
-But we do.
We know who you are.
His Highness knows what you do.
What I do?
You mean speaking the truth?
Fighting people like the man you work for?
[in English] I want you to know
I am not afraid.
[in English] Keep walking.
You should have
St. John Creek to your west.
In a half mile, you're gonna make a left.
There's no road on the GPS.
It's not on GPS.
I'm looking at satellite feeds.
Looks like it may be a trail
or maybe an old fire road.
We won't get there in time.
♪ We'd blacken each other's skies ♪
[in Arabic] Daler, get the equipment.
[Al-Harbi in Arabic]
We'll do it here. In the clearing.
-There's more room.
-[Maroun in Arabic] What are you doing?
-What are those?
-He wants clear footage.
Start to finish. Every bit.
Take her right side.
[in English] Go to the ground.
Signal's emanating from here,
quarter mile south, before the creek.
We go in on foot. One team from the east,
one from the west.
Our unsub's in here.
He'll have backup and he'll want to fight.
All right? Let's go.
[in English] He wants to watch?
That's what this is for?
Well...
I want you to know this,
you can kill me,
you can try to make an example of me,
but it will only invigorate
the people I fight for.
You will make them stronger,
and they will fight back.
[grunting]
Shot came from our west.
[gunshot]
[Maroun yells]
Get off!
-[gunshot]
-[gun clicking]
[indistinct shouting]
[man] Don't move!
[suspenseful music playing]
[Ressler] Is it just me
or is he way too comfortable?
[Cooper] Main Justice is sending an AUSA.
He won't be comfortable
once he's told his charges.
Maroun verified Kidd's intel.
-How is she?
-Good.
Great, considering.
EMTs gave her a clean bill of health.
-Get her statement?
-Yeah.
Based on what she told me,
that guy has no business
looking so relaxed.
[Ressler] It's weird, right?
Like you being in the circus.
You were in the circus?
I ran away from home when I saw
The Great Davido spin 75 plates at once.
I was hired as a roadie on a Monday.
Lost my virginity
to a trapeze artist on a Tuesday.
She left me for the strongman
on a Wednesday,
and I was back home
eating matzo ball soup,
watching Jerry Maguire
on a Thursday. It was, um...
Quite the whirlwind.
[Ressler] It's weird, right?
-It's like he's in on a joke.
-[Cooper] Forget him.
Go talk to Kidd.
The marshals have him in custody.
Telling us about Maroun
was only part of the deal.
-He's gotta tell you about Townsend.
-Kidd's scared to death of this guy.
He doesn't think we can protect him.
Of course we can. But we only will
if he tells us what he knows.
I'm not saying you're bad at your jobs.
Our job is to protect you
and you're saying we can't do that.
Not three of you. Not against him.
[knocking on door]
[man] Relax. It's the FBI.
Agent Ressler. He's coming here
to ask you about the bogeyman.
Make fun, but you're gonna need more men.
Townsend can't hurt you
if he can't find you.
Since we're the only ones who know
you're here, that's not gonna happen.
[ominous music playing]
You did well.
[silenced gunshots]
Look at me.
I haven't said anything about you.
I know.
And now you never will.
[silenced gunshot]
[footsteps approaching]
Assistant Director Cooper? Ken Spears.
From Main Justice,
yes, I've been expecting you.
I had a copy made of Maroun's statement,
but of course you'll wanna speak with her.
Actually, that won't be necessary.
Oh?
And why is that?
[suspenseful music playing]
[cell phone beeps, then dials]
Aram, we got a problem.
Sir.
Sir, Agent Ressler called.
Townsend got to Kidd.
He doesn't know how, but he did.
["Chains" playing]
Sir, do you hear me?
Two marshals are dead, and Kidd is gone.
The Saudi operative has been released.
-What?
-No charges are being filed.
A plane standing by at Dulles
to fly him to Riyadh.
Wait. He had someone buried alive.
He was about to execute her.
Of the 19 terrorists on 9/11,
15 came from Saudi Arabia.
After the attack, King Fahd urged
the White House to evacuate the members
of Osama bin Laden's family
who were living in the United States.
Eventually, the FBI assisted
in returning two dozen of them.
No questions asked.
King Fahd is gone, but his oil isn't.
And the royal family has
as much influence as ever.
Safiya Maroun is a threat
to the royal family, so...
Main Justice isn't interested in her
or her statement.
They're only interested
in pretending it never happened.
I have to tell Safiya.
♪ All of these chains ♪
♪ Weighing down on me
Weighing down ♪
[Dembe] Your fight with Harold is
helping Elizabeth's cause.
And that cause
will only end up hurting her.
I'm not fighting with Harold.
His fight with you, then.
Which you could stop but choose not to.
Go on, then. Give me my medicine.
You gave him the case so you could get
to Captain Kidd and learn about Townsend.
He got to Kidd, but kept him away from you
so he could get to Townsend first.
In the end, Townsend got to Kidd
and neither of you learned anything.
And I thought
taking the pills was unpleasant.
Elizabeth is lost.
She has aligned herself
with a powerful enemy.
You and Harold cannot go on
fighting each other and him.
Find a way to call a truce,
not just for Elizabeth,
but for Harold too.
His list of enemies has grown too long.
Our friend in the East.
I fear his patience... may run thin.
♪ Yeah, I drift away ♪
♪ To a brighter place ♪
♪ That I close my eyes to see ♪
[in Russian] What am I missing?
[in Russian] Excuse me?
[in English] Reddington.
What am I not seeing?
We have a system in place.
You are a vital part of that system.
The FBI following you
threatens that system.
Yet he seems unwilling
to do anything to stop them.
[in English] Not unwilling.
♪ Weighing down ♪
Unable, then.
♪ I'm down on my knees ♪
♪ I need some relief ♪
♪ Some quiet and peace ♪
♪ I've been here before ♪
♪ Tethered and torn ♪
♪ I won't take anymore ♪
The instructions are clear.
Who to speak with, what to say.
They must be executed to the letter.
♪ All of these chains ♪
♪ Weighing down on me ♪
♪ Weighing down ♪
Harold Cooper?
All of this is happening
at his instruction.
Yes. But he is an assistant director
of the FBI.
♪ All of these chains ♪
♪ Weighing down on me ♪
I have known Raymond longer than anyone.
I know and trust him like a brother.
But if he won't do what's necessary
to protect what we've built
over the decades, I will.
Even if it means eliminating
an assistant director of the FBI.
[closing theme playing]